Trustees' Annual Report for the period
Period start date Period end date
1 A t 2017 1 I 201
From ugust 20 To 3 July 018
Charity name BUSY OTTERS PRE-SCHOOL PLAYGROUP
 
 
 
Other names charity is known by -
Registered charity number (if any) 1023260
Charity's principal address |LONGDOGS LANE
OTTERY ST MARY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Postcode \Ex11 1HY
 
Names of the charity trustees who manage the charity
Name of person (or body)
Trustee name Office (if any) ‘?v?‘t:; azt;d if not for entitled to appoint trustee
y (|f any)
1| VERYAN YOUNG | CHAIRMAN
> JULIANNE TREASURER
ANDERSON
3 | HEIDI VAUGHAN | SECRETARY
4 ALISSA BENNETT | TRUSTEE
CRONK
Description of the charity’s trusts
CONSTITUTION
 
 
 
Type of governing document
(eg. trust deed, constitution)
 
How the charity is constituted UNINCORPORATED ASSOCIATION
(eg. trust, association, company)
 
Trustee selection methods ELECTION AT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(eg. appointed by, elected by)
 
 
 
TAR 1
Additional governance issues (Optional information) MEMBER OF PRESCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE — MODEL CONSTITUTION 2011 ADOPTED. You may choose to include
additional information, where
relevant, about:
e policies and procedures
adopted for the induction and
training of trustees;
¢ the charity’s organisational
structure and any wider
network with which the charity
works;
e relationship with any related
parties;
o trustees’ consideration of
major risks and the system
and procedures to manage
them.
 
Summary of the objects of the
charity set out in its
governing document
Summary of the main
activities undertaken for the
public benefit in relation to
these objects (include within
this section the statutory
declaration that trustees have
had regard to the guidance
issued by the Charity
Commission on public
benefit)
TAR
 
The aims of the Pre-school are to enhance the development and
education of children primarily under statutory school age by encouraging
parents to understand and provide for the needs of their children through
community groups.
 
 
It does this by:
(a) offering appropriate play, education and care facilities, family learning
and extended hours groups, together with the right of parents to take
responsibility for and to become involved in the activities of such groups,
ensuring that such groups offer opportunities for all children whatever
their race, culture, religion, means or ability;
(b) encouraging the study of the needs of such children and their families
and promoting public interest in and recognition of such needs in the
local areas;
(c) instigating and adhering to and furthering the aims and objects of the
Pre-school Learning Alliance.
 
 
Additional details of objectives and activities (Optional information) You may choose to include
further statements, where
relevant, about:
policy on grantmaking;
policy programme related
investment;
contribution made by
volunteers.
 
More information about the Charity can be found at
www.busyotters.co.uk
 
Summary of the main
achievements of the charity
during the year
 
 
The Charity has generated £125,113 receipts, and made payments of
£104,813, resulting in a net profit of £20,300.
Folowing a loss in the previous financial year, we are pleased that the
Charity has returned to profitability, partly due to a high birth rate in this
cohort, alongside the expansion of the town.
The Trustees’ plans to improve pupil numbers in the academic / financial
year forward have been realized and we are grateful to our wonderful
staff in helping us do this.
 
 
 
Brief statement of the
charity’s policy on reserves
Details of any funds materially
in deficit
Further financial review details
You may choose to include
additional information, where
relevant about:
o the charity’s principal
sources of funds (including
any fundraising);
how expenditure has
supported the key objectives
of the charity;
investment policy and
objectives including any
ethical investment policy
adopted.
 
The Charity currently holds reserves of £54,978, including: Operational
Reserve and Redundancy Reserves. These are reviewed by the trustees
for sufficiency at least once a term.
 
None.
 
(Optional information)
 
The Charity’s principal income is derived from Government funding of
early years education and supplemented by private fees.
In December 2017 the Charity was pleased to receive a Big Lottery Fund
grant of £9,996 which was used to provide a new piece of fixed play
equipment in the playground.
The Charity was inspected by Ofsted on 28 March 2018 and were
pleased to receive an excellent report from Ofsted, which can be found at
https://files.api.ofsted.gov.uk/v1/file/2769351.
In July 2018 the Charity was provided with a grant by the Rotary club of
£1,200 to assist in the development of the setting’s garden area.
 
 
 
 
On 8 March 2018, the Trustees agreed to convert the organisation’s
structure from an unincorporated organisation to a charitable
incorporated organisation (CIO), to help make its future more sustainable
and limit trustees’ personal liability.
Accordingly, the Preschool Learning Alliance — Model CIO Constitution
2013 was adopted for the new Charity for the setting, being Busy Otters
Preschool (Charity 1177677). Over this financial year, all assets and staff
will be transferred to this new organisation and this Charity will therefore
be dissolved.
 
 
 
 
The trustees declare that they have approved the trustees’ report above.
Signed on behalf of the charity’s trustees
Full name(s) |[VERYAN YOUNG
Position | CHAIR
Signature(s)
 
 
 
 
 
Date 1 November 2018
TAR 4
Section B Statement of assets and liabilities at the end of the period Categories
B1 Cash funds
B2 Other monetary assets
B3 investment assets
B4 Assets retained for the
charity’'s own use
B5 Liabilities
Signed by one or two trustees on
behalf of all the trustees
CCXX R2 accounts (SS)
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
Total cash funds
(agree balances with receipts and payments
account(s})
Details
=
Details
-~
Details
OTHER DEBTORS
 
Details
—
Signature
—
 
Unrestricted Restricted
funds funds
{0 nearest £ to nearest £
11,131
26,037
10,071
2,739  
54,978
Unrestricted Restricted
funds funds
to nearest £ to nearest £
Fund to which
asset belongs Cost {optional)
   
1l
Fund to whic
unrestricted
Fund to which Amount due
jabili tes optional
1
Print Name
|
Endowment to
funds
nearest £
Endowment to
funds
nearest £
Current value opti When due optional Date of a
roval
17/09/2018
   
 
 
Independent examiner's report on the
accounts
Independent Examiner’s Report
 
 
members of
On accounts for the year | 31 ST JULY 2018- - Charity no | 1023260
ended (if any)
Respective The charity's trustees consider that an audit is not required for this year (under
responsibilities of section 43(2) of the Charities Act 1993 (the Act),as amended by s.28 of the
trustees and examiner Charities Act 2006) and that an independent examination is needed.
It is my responsibility to:
* examine the accounts (under section 43 of the Act, as amended),
o to follow the procedures laid down in the General Directions given by the
Charity Commission (under section 43(7)(b) of the Act, as amended), and
¢ to state whether particular matters have come to my attention.
 
 
Basis of independent My examination was carried out in accordance with General Directions given by
examiner's statement the Charity Commission. An examination includes a review of the accounting
records kept by the charity and a comparison of the accounts presented with
those records. It also includes consideration of any unusual items or disclosures
in the accounts, and seeking explanations from the trustees concerning any such
matters. The procedures undertaken do not provide all the evidence that would
be required in an audit, and consequently | do not express an audit opinion on the
accounts.
Independent In the course of my examination, no matter has come to my attention (other than
examiner's statement that disclosed below *)
1. which gives me reasonable cause to believe that in, any material respect, the
trustees have not met the requirements to ensure that:
e proper accounting records are kept (in accordance with section 41 of the
Act); and
» accounts are prepared which agree with the accounting records and
comply with the accounting requirements of the Act; or
2. to which, in my opinion, attention should be drawn in order to enable a proper
understanding of the accounts to be reached.
* Please delete the words in the brackets if they do not apply.
Date: | 17" September 2018
 
Relevant professional | F.C.C.A., B.COMM.
qualification(s) or body
(if any):
 
 
 
17, SILVER STREET, Address: | OTTERY ST. MARY, DEVON EX11 1DB.  
IER 1 April 2007