Charity No: 1168193
, Families Rel ef
Disasters don't just affect individuals, they affect families and communities
Annual Report and Accounts
For the Period 12 July 2016 to 31 December
FAMILIES RKLIKF
Contents of the Financial Statements
For the Period 12 July 2016 to 31 December 2017
Page
Legal and administrative information
Report of the Trustees
Accountants Report
Statement of Financial Activities
Balance Sheet
FAlVIILIKS RELIEF
LEGAL AND ADMIMSTRATIVE INFORMATION
Registered Charity Number:
1168193
Trustees:
Mr Nouriddine Miladi
Mr Fuad Nahdi
MrMAKGooljar
Principal Office:
133 Abbeydale Road
Sheffield
S7 1FE
Accountants:
Alpha Chartered Certified Accountants
90 Stechford Lane
Birmingham
BS 2AN
Bankers:
Natwest Bank
1 The Mall
Ealing
London
WS 9BP
l.egal Advisors:
Johns 5. Saggar
34-36 Gray's inn Road
London
WClX 8HR
FAMILIES RELIEF
Trustees Report 2017
The Trustees submit their annual report and the financial statements of the Families Relief
(charity) for the period 12 July 2016 to 31 December 2017.
The Trustees confirm that the annual report and 6nanciai statements of the charity comply with
current statutory requirements, the reqinrements of the charity's governing document and the
provisions of the Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP) Accounting and
Reporting by Charities issued in March 2005.
Structure, Governance and management
* Constitution
The organisation is a Charitable Incorporated Organisation, created on the 12th july 2016
* Method of appointment or election of Trustees
The management of the charity is the responsibility of the Trustees who are elected and
co-opted under the terms of the constitution of the CIO.
* Organisation structure and decision making
The organisational structure of the charity is made up of the board of trustees and executive
committee. Due to the size of the Organisation the trustees are taking an active role within the
executive committee which includes senior members of staff and volunteers. The executive
committee takes decision regarding day to day activities, while the Board of Trustees takes a
The charity has not fundraised as a CIO, but will do so.
FAMILIES RKLIKP
Trustees Report 2017
Objectives and Activities
* Policies and Objectives
The principal objectives of the charity is to provide relief for sickness, hardship and distress
amongst the poor and needy people of the world. To apply the trust fund for the benefit of any
charitable purpose as the trustees shall decide &om time to time. There have been no changes
in the objectives since the last annual reporL
* Activities for achieving objectives
The Charity, has continued fo fund the activities in various poor countries, and is
aiming to work on training based projects, giving its beneficiaries a route out of poverty.
~
Grants making policies
The trustees meet regularly, so that they may assess requests for aid, and apply the funds
available to the charity in accordance with donor wishes. Request for aid are proposed by
Families Relief own staff or outside institutions. Families Relief applies these funds on the basis
of need and after consulting with other Trustees
~
Volunteers
The Charity is grateful for the continued support of its volunteers who are involved in a number
of provisions during our events and fundraising. It is estimated that over 5,500 volunteer hours
were provided during the year.
Achievements and Performance
* Review of Activities
The results of the year are shown in the financial statements. The statement of Financial activities
shows the incoming resources expended by the diferent activities conducted under the charity's
name.
* Funding activities / Income generation
The charity is exploring all avenues for fundraising, in line with UK regulations.
Fmaneial Review
FAMILIKS RELIEF
The results for the period 12 July 2016 to 31 December 2017 are shown in the Statement of Financial
Activities on page 6.
For the period 12 July 2016 to 31 December 2017 the charity's total income was $0.
During the year donations paid were fO and operating expenditure was $0. Total expenditure
for the year was $0.
The carried forward to reserves which at 31 December 2017 stood at EO.
Full details of the income and expenditure is given in the accounts.
~
Reserve Policy
The trustees believe that Families Relief should aim for a reserve policy of $60,000 with a
variance of 20%. The deficit cleared and the charity is in surplus.
* Principal funding
The charity's main income is derived irom fundraising and selling donated second hand clothes
through its charity shops and recycling projects.
Plans for the future
* Future developments
Families Relief is looking at sustainable ways for safeguarding beneficiaries, and that
will include working closely with other charities on projects at home and abroad.
Families Relief, is seeking greater understanding into how to better help families in the UK,
and how to make a greater impact in helping families overseas.
There are also a number of fundraising events which have been planned for the following year.
These events allow an opportunity for the charity to build upon its current donors and obtain
long term financial support through monthly direct debits. This is an aspect that the charity
actively works upon consistently throughout the year. Additionally, the charity will try to further
establish itself and increase its brand image This will be executed through more effective
advertising, promotion and also word of mouth. The charity will endeavor to better and widen the
services it provides to its beneficiaries, through greater research and cooperation with other
organizations.
Employee involvement and employment of the disabled
Employees have been consulted on issues of concern fo them by means of regular consultative
committee and staff meetings and have been kept informed on specific matters directly by
management, The charity cames out exit interviews for all staff leaving the organisation and has
adopted a procedure of upward feedback for the senior management and the Trustees.
The charity continues to implement detailed policies in relation to all personnel matters including.
~
Equal Opportunities Policy
~
Volunteers Policy
* Health and Safety Policy
FAMILIES RELIEF
In accordance with the charity's equal opportunities policy, the charity has long established fair
employment practices in the recruitment, selection, retention and training of disabled staff.
Full details of these policies are available from the charity's office.
Statement of the trustees' res nsibilities
The Trustees are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice
applicable to smaller charities.
Law applicable to charities in England and Wales requires charities to prepare financial
statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
charity and of the surplus or deficit of the charity for that period. In preparing those financial
statements the trustees have;
* Selected suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently
~
Make judgements and estimates that reasonable and prudent
* State whether applicable accounting standards and statements of recommeded
practice have been followed, subject to any departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements.
~
Prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis (unless it is inappropriate
to presume that the charity will continue in operation)
The Trustees are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the charity and enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the charities Act 1993.They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the charity and hence for taking reasonable steps for the detection
and prevention of &aud and other irregularities.
This report was approved by the Trustees on the 31 October 2018 and signed on its
behalf, by:
MrMAKGooljar
FAMILIES RKLIKF
Accountant's Report to the Trustees of Families Relief
I report on the accounts for the period 12 July 2016 to 31 December 2017 set out on pages six to Eight.
Accountants Statement
In order to assist you to fulfil your duties under the Companies Act 2006, we have prepared for your
approval the accounts of Families Relief for the Period 12 July 2016 to 31 December 2017
which comprise of the income and Expenditure Account, the Balance Sheet
from information and explanations you have given us.
As a practising member firm of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, we are subject to
its ethical and other professional requirements which are detailed at
http: //rulebook. accaglobal. corn/
Our work has been undertaken in accordance with the requirements of the Association of Chartered
Certified Accountants as detailed at http: //www. accaglobal. corn/factsheet163.
Amjad Hussain Rayaz FCCA
Alpha Chartered Certified Accountants
90 Stechford Lane
Birmingham
88 2AN
FAMILIES RELIEF
Statement of Financial Activities
For the Period 12 July 2016 to 31 December 2017
Unrestricted
funds
Restricted
Total
funds
2017
Incoming resources
Incoming resources irom
generating funds
Donations
Shop and recycling Income
Total incoming reseources
Resources expended
Charities activities
Governance activities
Total resources expended
Movement in total funds for the year-
Net income/(expenditure) for the year
Total funds at 12 July 2016
Total funds at 31 December 2017
FAMILIES RELIEF
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017
2017
2017
Fixed assets
Tangible assets
Current assets
Cash at bank and in hand
Debtors k Prepayments
Credtors:
amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets
Net assets
Restricted/Restricted Income fund
Restricted/Unrestricted income fund
The Financial statements were approved by the trustees aud signed on their behalf, by
MrMAKGooljar